# Do not edit this file manually.
# Execute the script called codeowners_creator.py to generate it.

backup-this-file@h3nr1ke/*                         @h3nr1ke
calculate-md5sum@schorschii/*                      @schorschii
calculate-sha256sum@rcalixte/*                     @rcalixte
calculate-sha512sum@rcalixte/*                     @rcalixte
check-with-virustotal@stilktf/*                    @stilktf
cinnamon-system-settings@100savage/*               @100savage
cinnamon-take-screenshot@duracell80/*              @duracell80
clone-git-repo@anaximeno/*                         @anaximeno
compile-run-gcc@anticitizn/*                       @anticitizn
convert-file@thigschuch/*                          @ThigSchuch
convert-image-format@el-amine-404/*                @el-amine-404
convert-to-pdf@ScarletEmanu/*                      @ScarletEmanu
copy-path-to-clipboard@claudiux/*                  @claudiux
create-desktop-shortcut@anaximeno/*                @anaximeno
davinci-audio-adjustment@schorschii/*              @schorschii
download-subtitles@kavalanche/*                    @kavalanche
file-shredder@czmisacz/*                           @CZmisaCZ
gnome-system-monitor@100savage/*                   @100savage
ide-launcher-advanced@adrianopaonessa/*            @adrianopaonessa
image-compressor@schorschii/*                      @schorschii
move-into-a-new-folder@anaximeno/*                 @anaximeno
msg-convert@schorschii/*                           @schorschii
open-in-intellij-idea@el-amine-404/*               @amine-el-houjjaji
open-in-remote-terminal@mamolinux/*                @mamolinux
paste-into-file@anaximeno/*                        @anaximeno
pdf-compressor@schorschii/*                        @schorschii
pdf-merger@ScarletEmanu/*                          @ScarletEmanu
pdf-ocr@schorschii/*                               @schorschii
peazip-add-to-archive@xszabo3/*                    @xszabo3
peazip-extract-here@BlancoBv/*                     @BlancoBv
peazip-flatpak-convert@xszabo3/*                   @xszabo3
peazip-flatpak-extract-here@xszabo3/*              @xszabo3
peazip-flatpak-extract-to-folder@xszabo3/*         @xszabo3
peazip-flatpak-extract@xszabo3/*                   @xszabo3
peazip-flatpak-open-as-archive@xszabo3/*           @xszabo3
quick-desktop-entry@yfabrik/*                      @yfabrik
reload-all-desklets@rcalixte/*                     @rcalixte
restart-cinnamon@claudiux/*                        @claudiux
run-in-terminal@alextpedro/*                       @alextpedro
send-as-attachment@rcalixte/*                      @rcalixte
send-to-printer@rcalixte/*                         @rcalixte
send-via-bluetooth@asgharalitaj/*                  @AsgharAliTaj
send-with-kdeconnect@rcalixte/*                    @rcalixte
verify-md5sum@schorschii/*                         @schorschii
verify-sha256sum@rcalixte/*                        @rcalixte
verify-sha512sum@rcalixte/*                        @rcalixte
vscode-launcher@vajdao/*                           @vajdao
webp-to-png@tomunek/*                              @tomunek
xkill@eson57/*                                     @eson57
